Northeastern is a world leader in experiential learning, our distinctive  educational model .

This year, we celebrate the 115th anniversary of co-op, our flagship experiential program that integrates classroom study with professional work experience for undergraduate and graduate students alike. It sits alongside an ever-expanding and immersive experiential program portfolio that includes research, community service, and global opportunities.

We invite you to see its impact through statistics, stories, and reflections, and to see more ways to support its growth below.

of students receive a job offer  from a former co-op employer

I am so grateful for the opportunity to implement skills outside of the classroom before graduation. I value the amazing connections with attorneys, DEI practitioners, and advocates who help move the needle for marginalized communities.

Co-op: Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Department, Goodwin Procter LLP

I value the hands-on experience I’m getting in finance. It allows me to develop professionally and network, which is crucial for success. I am able to foster important skills for the industry.

Co-op: Settlements and Clearing  ,   Scotiabank

I value the experience I’m getting by being around my coworkers who are in the position I strive to be in one day. Absorbing information from them, whether through one-on-one conversations or things I hear from them in the office, is incredibly valuable.

Co-op: Admin/Digital Marketing Assistant at Ultra Records, Sony Music Entertainment

Reflections: Stories of Transformational Co-ops

Northeastern co-op blends marine biology and studio art to promote Cape Cod Coastal Resilience Week      Northeastern co-op blends marine biology and studio art to promote Cape Cod Coastal Resilience Week   Northeastern co-op blends marine biology and studio art to promote Cape Cod Coastal Resilience Week    Fourth-year Northeastern University student Meredith McGowan designed the signature logo for Cape Cod Coastal Resilience Week. Its message is designed to highlight “our ability to bounce back and be strong in the face of climate change and adverse weather events.”

Read More           This Northeastern co-op helped develop algorithms for high-performance ‘brain-inspired’ computing hardware       This Northeastern co-op helped develop algorithms for high-performance ‘brain-inspired’ computing hardware    This Northeastern co-op helped develop algorithms for high-performance ‘brain-inspired’ computing hardware     Student Mauricio Tedeschi worked as a co-op at The Peter Grünberg Institute, developing and testing algorithms for dedicated “brain-inspired hardware” for high-performance computing.

Read More           A co-op in a New York probation office helped this Northeastern student ‘discover her confidence’      A co-op in a New York probation office helped this Northeastern student ‘discover her confidence’   A co-op in a New York probation office helped this Northeastern student ‘discover her confidence’    Maya Gayle, who studies political science and economics, completed a co-op with the probation department of the Southern District of New York.

Read More           From Boston to Barcelona, this Husky got a chance to see how innovators operate around the world through a marketing co-op      From Boston to Barcelona, this Husky got a chance to see how innovators operate around the world through a marketing co-op   From Boston to Barcelona, this Husky got a chance to see how innovators operate around the world through a marketing co-op    Ivanna Pilataxi wants to bring a global perspective back to her home city in Ecuador. Northeastern’s co-op program allowed her the chance to see how businesses operate globally.

Read More           Northeastern student went from classroom to cellular molecular biology research co-op      Northeastern student went from classroom to cellular molecular biology research co-op   Northeastern student went from classroom to cellular molecular biology research co-op    Sumedha Reddy Sudini remembered touring the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology as a teen. So when it came time for her to do a co-op, she knew where she wanted to apply.

Read More           Northeastern co-op students work to prevent neglected tropical diseases and birth injuries among women in rural Kenya      Northeastern co-op students work to prevent neglected tropical diseases and birth injuries among women in rural Kenya   Northeastern co-op students work to prevent neglected tropical diseases and birth injuries among women in rural Kenya    Northeastern co-op students Abigail Binkley, left, and Abigail Williams conducted research on health issues among women in Kenya’s Pokot tribe.

Introducing Co-op Perspectives—a new video series that takes a deep dive into Northeastern University’s renowned experiential learning program, offering unique insights from those who have experienced co-op firsthand.

Episode 1: The Co-op Experience

Episode 2: The Co-op Employer Experience

Episode 3: The Co-op Parent Experience

Co-op 115th Anniversary Celebration

September 10, 2024  View event photos .

October 10, 2024  View event photos .

October 23, 2024  View event photos .

November 9, 2024  View event photos .

Powering  Preparedness, Professionalism, and Partnerships

While some startup companies, public service agencies, and nonprofits can’t offer salaries, some globally located co-ops are out of reach for students due to travel expenses. Help fund these vital co-op experiences, opening doors to some of the most meaningful roles a student can have.

Employers can tap into a pool of top-notch talent to invigorate their workforce and infuse their office with fresh ideas. These motivated and flexible learners have the mindset, skill, and drive to bring a business, agency, or nonprofit organization to the next level.

360 Huntington Ave., Boston, MA 02115 617.373.2000 | TTY 617.373.3768

Follow      Follow      Follow      Follow      Follow      Follow