COE Graduate Student Ambassadors

WeChat (Search &#8216;NEU Student Ambassador&#8217;)

Written by: Manan Shukla & Astha Rastogi

What are the job opportunities after MSEM?

Engineering managers occupy a unique position in their industry. They combine their management expertise with engineering knowledge to lead teams of specialists in highly technical tasks.  The breadth of this domain is one of the most attractive facets of this program, they include:

Project Management  Supply Chain Engineering/ Management  Data/Business Analytics  Product development

How does the Co-op program really work ?

Co-op is an experiential learning experience where in the students get to work with firms and get hands-on experience of the latest trends.  You are eligible to look for a co-op anywhere in the United States of America.  Also, Northeastern University provides you with the opportunity of going on an international co-op.  The university provides numerous resources such as NU Careers, Career development services, Career Fairs (Fall and Spring) etc. to ease the co-op search strategy for students.

How many students get Co-op and what is the duration and pay?

One is eligible to go on a co-op after completion of 16 credits (2 semesters).  The general co-op duration is 4/6/8 months which you can start from summer, fall and spring.  Every student is allowed to do only one co-op during the masters program.  On an average nearly 60% of the students manage to attain a co-op.  The co-ops are paid and it varies from $20-$35/ hour.

Suggested courses for the 1st semester

Probability and Statistics  Operations Research  Career Management for Engineers (ENCP6000)  These courses are highly recommended as they serve as a prerequisite for electives in the following semester. ***These are just suggestions from your ambassadors. (NOT NECESSARY)

Manan Vinaybhai Shukla  &  Astha Rastogi  are our epic Engineering Management ambassadors!  Check out a little more about them on their profiles.

See more Student Stories  here .

Life at NEU    Research at NEU: Andres Vodopivec

Leave a Reply   Cancel reply      Your email address will not be published.   Required fields are marked  *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment

Social Media    Toggle "Social Media" submenu
